# Mariners 2025 Analytics Intern Problem Set

## File Structure
Credit for the general structure of this project goes to [Brendan M. Price](https://www.brendanmichaelprice.com/workflow/).

The objective of this project organization is as follows:
- Each project should have its own directory (hence, this template). It should be as self-contained as possible.
- Files are separated by function.
- The entire project can be executed in one click from a `main` file. Subscripts handle discrete tasks.
- Easy to reproduce results, work across devices, share with collaborators, and submit to journals.


Note: the `.gitkeep` files are placeholders used to maintain the file structure within GitHub. Feel free to delete them once you have real files in their folders.

### Code
- `code/build` (data preparation)
- `code/check` (data validation)
- `code/learn` (exploratory analysis)
- `code/libraries` (external libraries used in code)
- `code/share` (public-facing analysis)

### Data
Included in .gitignore. Raw data is stored on the cloud elsewhere (ex: Dropbox, Onedrive) and copied into local directories as needed due to GitHub's file size restrictions. Derived data can be produced using the included code files.
- `data/raw` (data as it was acquired)
- `data/derived` (anything created in the project)

### Output
- `output/learn` (outputs of exploratory analysis)
- `output/share` (outputs of public-facing analysis)

### Paper
LaTeX files and pdfs.

### Renv
Generated by the [`renv`](https://rstudio.github.io/renv/index.html) package. Creates reproducible environments for R projects.

When a new user opens this project, renv will automatically bootstrap itself, downloading and installing the appropriate version. It will also ask the user if they want to download and install all project-necessary packages using `renv::restore()`.

#### Important Commands:

- `renv::init()` has already been run once to generate necessary folders and files for this project. Likely doesn't need to run again unless something goes wrong.
- `renv::snapshot()` updates the lockfile with metadata about the currently-used packages in the project library. Run this any time after you add or remove a `library()` call in the code.
- `renv::restore()` reproduces the current environment: uses the metadata from the lockfile to install exactly the same version of every package.
- `renv::install()` installs packages much like `install.packages()`, but can also install packages from GitHub, Bioconductor, and more.
- `renv::update()` gets the latest version of all dependencies.

### Other Files
- `.Rprofile` is used by the `renv` package.
- `.gitignore` tells git which files to exclude from tracking (for example, the `data` folder).
- `.lintr` sets rules for [lintr](https://lintr.r-lib.org/), which provides diagnostics for code in R. I have set this up to exclude many trivial warnings such as trailing blank lines.
- `LICENSE.txt` is an example license, adapted from the [replication package](https://www.openicpsr.org/openicpsr/project/136761/version/V1/view) for "Disability Insurance in the Great Recession: Ease of Access, Program Enrollment, and Local Hysteresis" by Kearney et al. It is also the license recommended by the [AEA](https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/data/faq#lic).
- `README.md` is this file.
- `renv.lock` is the lockfile used by the `renv` package (described above).
